# CPE 1040 - Spring 2020

```
   _____ _             _                  _____  _                        _             
  / ____| |           | |         ___    |  __ \(_)                      (_)            
 | (___ | |_ _   _  __| |_   _   ( _ )   | |  | |_ ___  ___ _   _ ___ ___ _  ___  _ __  
  \___ \| __| | | |/ _` | | | |  / _ \/\ | |  | | / __|/ __| | | / __/ __| |/ _ \| '_ \ 
  ____) | |_| |_| | (_| | |_| | | (_>  < | |__| | \__ \ (__| |_| \__ \__ \ | (_) | | | |
 |_____/ \__|\__,_|\__,_|\__, |  \___/\/ |_____/|_|___/\___|\__,_|___/___/_|\___/|_| |_|
                          __/ |                                                         
                         |___/                                                                                                                                                                             
```

Art credit: [taag](http://patorjk.com/software/taag/#p=display&f=Big&t=Study%20%26%20Discussion)
---

**NOTE:** 
1. This lesson & assignment [README](README.md) is _intentionally_ blank, to be used as your notebook for study and discussion. _It is a great aid for your study and the main component of your submission._
2. Read and follow the [lesson-and-assignment](lesson-and-assignment.md).
3. For this assignment, readability, clarity, and proper formatting are required. Refer to the lesson-and-assignment document for examples, and the [Github markdown cheat sheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet). The cheat sheet doesn't exhaust all you can do with markdown in a Github README.md. If you need more sophisticated elements, search on Google and/or ask the course staff.
---
_Your study and submission work here..._
1.2.1:
The most generic definition for ethics I could find would be a set of standards or rules set in place for the betterment of a group as a whole vs the individual. I found a few interesting sections on the database, the first was The Ethics of Manipulation. On first instinct it seems like it is always unethical but there were some cases mentioned that could be the exception, like manipulating people for the greater good. Computer and information ethics was next, because it pertains to my field. Finally, I found the Chinese ethics section interesting as well.
1.2.2: Aristotle wrote that moral responsibility lays within individual people. People need to make conscious choices to do good and the end goal humans have is to be happy.
2.2.2: The centerpiece of human society that wouldn't exist would be the judicial system. If everyone was ethical, they would be working towards the greater good without a focus on the individual. If everyone works for a societal good and laws exist for societal good as well, then people wouldn't break laws. If laws aren't broken then there's no need for enforcement or trials. 
2.2.3: The most prevalent ‘event’ in recent history that fits this example would be the lockdown of airports in response to the 9/11 terror attacks. In that case, we traded personal freedoms, privacy, and comfort for national security and safety. 
3.2.1: It seemed like the inequalities in this realm come from countries in different levels of development collaborating in disasters. In cases of low contributions to disaster relief and research from the home location of the disaster, the research runs the risk of having a foreign entity with its own 'voice' and with it its culture and ethics being the only voice to the disaster.
3.2.2: The most prominent Covid-19 ethical dilema comes from the incredibily difficult decision to open the US back up so quickly after the declaration of a global pandemic. Having to choose between economic loss and loss of life has been a huge ethics issue. China started under/misreporting their numbers brings up the dilema between giving accurate numbers to keep people aware of the seriousness of the pandemic and putting people at ease and not panicked. Citizens in the US have been having to choose between their own personal 'freedoms' and the beterment of global health and safety. It seems like a very vocal population is chosing the former over the latter in the guise of 'freedom'. 
4.2.1: In general the Code of Ethics for the ACM makes a lot of sense. A focus on privacy/ security and innovation makes sense. Thoroughly learning about the ins and outs of computers also makes sense. The only portion that was confusing to me was 2.6, only performing work in areas of compentence. I feel like this limits the tasks and projects people can work on.
4.2.2: This code is aimed at open source developers on Microsofts platfroms and communities. Providing and welcoming and inspiration community is the goal of the code of conduct. Github is an OSS that we've been using.
4.2.3: Analysis and collection of large amounts of data by big companies is the primary concern for data ethics. Having access to these large amounts of data could lead to its exploitation for money, breaches of privacy, etc.
4.2.4: The code is necessary for the conference because it sets a standard for anyone participating in the conference. All presentations, workshops, etc. will be held to the same standard and are therefor all endorced by the brand/ group.
4.2.5: Google is concerned with AI being developed with the prejudices and bias' that its makers have and making sure AI isn't self governing.  The features, along with technology that causes direct harm, are the responsibility of the programmer to not implement. Making AI responsive to general ethical stances humans have (killing, harm, law) makes the technology safe for us to utilize and explore.
4.2.6: Ethics are a set of rules and morals set up to be for the good of a group of people. Hackers exploit holes in security and weaknesses to get access to data and other things stored in computers/networks. Ethical hacking is an interesting phenomena where 'white hat' hackers use their skills to find these exploitations and expose them for the owner of these networks and computer systems. They're like security companies testing their alarms and other protection before selling it to the consumer. The terms ethical and hacker are not mutually exclusive by definition, the negative connotation of the word hacker makes it seem oxymoronic.
5.2.1: Defection is a core aspect of the prisoners dilema, if people aren't cooperating together they aren't working towards a common goal which is a fundamental aspect of a code of ethics. One example would be adding a stipulation in the code that not only looks out for people as a whole but it looks out for individual components of the system. Ie: in Costco's code of ethics the 3rd point is taking care of employees. Since they are being taken care of they are incentivized to uphold the other points of the code of ethics.
5.2.2: a) My innovation would be a commonly accessed network to track Covid-19 cases traced to public spaces. One way this could have an adverse effect would be people using this data to avoid these public places. Businesses could lose customers, sales, and other parts of their business. Since it's public, people could also use this data to track people and make people pariahs by disclosing this information to friends and family. That can be counteracted by making the people themselves be private vs full disclosure of the information. Another possible adverse effect comes from vulnerabilities within the system itself. No system is inpenetrable, especially one with access to the public, so that highlights the rist of personal medical data being accessed illegally and whatever other data is used to make the system.
b) The fine line at launch would be the ability to give people the option to keep themselves safe vs. this data being used as a constant negative mark against a public place. After enough time has passed for it to become widely used I think the fine line stays the same.
5.2.3: I think the key part of staying the course in this case would be setting up the code of ethics and other guiding principles as clear and set in stone as possible. Making it hard to change if anyone were to defect makes it a little bit better.
5.2.4: 1. Obey the Law: all laws where this system is being used including HIPAA to protect the data from being used maliciously. 2. Ensure the privacy of everyone involved: self explanatory. 3. Be fair and impartial: this protects user data from being skewed by biased reports.
